== About This Sample 

* Ruby Query API sample to demonstrate creating a queue, sending messages,
  receiving messages, and deleting messages.
* Based on the 2009-02-01 API version (Query).

The Ruby sample code includes an example file called <tt>sqs_demo.rb</tt> that
performs basic SQS actions. We explain how to run that example. We also walk
through the contents of that file. After you're familiar with the contents of
<tt>sqs_demo.rb</tt>, you can modify the file as you'd like to suit your needs.

== Prerequisites

* A valid Amazon Web Services developer account (go to http://aws.amazon.com
  to sign up for one).
* You must be signed up to use Amazon SQS (go to http://aws.amazon.com/sqs to
  sign up for the service).
* Ruby 1.8.5 or newer (to downloado it, go to http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads)
* Rubygems (to download it, go to http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126)
* xml-simple gem (to download it, go to
  http://rubyforge.org/projects/xml-simple)

=== To install Rubygems and the xml-simple gem

1.  Download Rubygems.
2. Extract the package.
3. At a command line, type ruby setup.rb to install Rubygems.
4. Download the xml-simple gem.
5. Use the following command to install the xml-simple gem.
    gem install -y xml-simple

== Running the Example Application

These are the tasks that the example application performs.

1. Creates a queue named SQS-Test-Queue-Ruby.
2. Confirms that your new queue is in the SQS system.
3. Sends a message to the queue (the message is, "This is a test message.").
4. Gets the approximate number of messages in the queue. 
5. Receives the message from the queue and returns the message ID, the receipt handle (later used to delete the message), and the message itself.
6. Deletes the message from the queue.

<b>Note:</b> Because of the distributed architecture of SQS, the result is not
an exact count of the number of messages in a queue. In most cases it should be
close to the actual number of messages in the queue, but you should not rely on
the count being precise.

The output from the sample application looks like the following.

  1) Queue Created: SQS-Test-Queue-Ruby
  2) Queue Found
  3) Message Sent
  message id: 
  MEVOQVM0RUcwMkROTkFSRlpEWDl8NlhCMjNRU0g3Sk41NzNBWDdBQzF8SjlNSkYxQkZWRVYzQTg1TVI2TjE=
  4) Approximate Number of Messages: 2
  5) Message Received
  message id: 
  MDQxNEc0WlpYRTQ4UkpBNEJHNkN8NlhCMjNRU0g3Sk41NzNBWDdBQzF8S0RTOTg5TUdQOE5EQjRHSlpYOTA=
  receipt handle: 
  MDQxNEc0WlpYRTQ4UkpBNEJHNkN8NlhCMjNRU0g3Sk41NzNBWDdBQzF8S0RTOTg5TUdQOE5EQjRHSlpYOTA=:MDQxNEc0WlpYRTQ4UkpBNEJHNkN8NlhCMjNRU0g3Sk41NzNWDdBQzF8S0RTOTg5TUdQOE5EQjRHSlpYOTA=
  message: This is a test message.
  Message deleted

You can re-run the example every 60 seconds: sending additional requests
to create a queue with the name SQS-Test-Queue-Ruby does not result in an
error, unless you created and deleted the queue in the last 60 seconds.

Feel free to modify the example (you could update it to create multiple queues,
or send multiple messages to a queue, for example).

=== To run the example

1. Get your Secret Access Key and Access Key ID (log in to your AWS developer count and click <b>Your Web Services Account</b> > <b>AWS Access Identifiers</b>.

2. Open the <tt>sqs_demo.rb</tt> file in a text editor.

3. Locate the following two lines of code: 

  AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID = ''
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY = ''

4. Insert your Access Key ID and Secret Access Key between the quotation marks.

5. Save the file.

6. At a command prompt, go to the directory where sqs_demo.rb is and type the following: 

  ruby sqs_demo.rb

You now have a queue in the SQS system called SQS-Test-Queue-Ruby; you've sent
a message to it and received and deleted the message. Other SQS users who run
the example will also have queues named SQS-Test-Queue-Ruby. However, queue
names are scoped within each AWS developer account, and the AWS Access Key ID
in your requests tells SQS which queue named SQS-Test-Queue-Ruby to access.

=== Creating a Queue

The application starts with the necessary statements for the required
libraries. 

  require "lib/aws/sqs.rb"
  require "lib/aws/sqs/client.rb"
  require "lib/aws/sqs/queue.rb"

  require 'cgi'

Variables are declared for your AWS access identifiers, the service URL for
SQS, a queue name, and a test message. 

  AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID = 'Insert your Access Key ID here'
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY = 'Insert your Secret Access Key here'
  ENDPOINT = 'http://queue.amazonaws.com'
  AMAZON_SQS_TEST_QUEUE = "SQS-Test-Queue-Ruby"
  SQS_TEST_MESSAGE = 'This is a test message.'

The following code creates a queue. 

  client = AWS::SQS::Client.new(AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, :endpoint => ENDPOINT)
 
  # Create our Queue...

  # Note: If the queue has recently been deleted, the application needs to wait
  # for 60 seconds before a queue with the same name can be created again.

  try_again = true
  while try_again
    begin
      try_again = false
      queue = client.create_queue(AMAZON_SQS_TEST_QUEUE)
      puts "1) Queue Created: " + queue.name
    rescue => Exception
      # Was the queue recently deleted?
      if Exception == 'AWS.SimpleQueueService.QueueDeletedRecently'
        # Yes - wait 60 seconds and retry (propagation delay)
        puts '1a) AWS.SimpleQueueService.QueueDeletedRecently -- waiting 60 seconds...'
        sleep(60)
        try_again = true
      else
        puts Exception
      end
    end
  end

<b>Note:</b> To help you understand how best to design your own application,
the example application includes a check for the
SimpleQueueService.QueueDeletedRecently error, which SQS returns if you try to
create a new queue with the name of a queue you've just deleted. You must wait
60 seconds first.

=== Confirming the Queue Exists

Now that your queue has been created, the application confirms the queue's
existence by listing the queues you have in SQS.

When you create a queue, it can take a short time for the queue to propagate
throughout the SQS system. The following code lists your queues and keeps
polling until the new queue is included in the list. 

  retry_count = 0
  try_again = true
  while try_again
    queues = client.list_queues

    # Does our queue exist yet?
    if queues.to_s =~ /\/#{AMAZON_SQS_TEST_QUEUE}$/
      try_again = false
      retry_count = 0
      puts "2) Queue Found"
    else
      try_again = true
      retry_count ++
      puts("2a) Queue not available yet - keep polling (" + retry_count + ")")
    end
  end

=== Sending a Message to the Queue

Now that the application has confirmed your queue exists in the SQS system, it
sends a message to the queue. It then gets the approximate number of messages
in the queue. You can use the number to help determine how many resources (such
as Amazon EC2 instances) you need to process the messages in a queue.

<b>Note:</b> Because of the distributed architecture of SQS, the result is not
an exact count of the number of messages in a queue. In most cases it should be
close to the actual number of messages in the queue, but you should not rely on
the count being precise.

The following code sends a message to your queue and gets the approximate
number of messages in the queue.

  # Send a message
  message_id = queue.send_message(CGI.escape(SQS_TEST_MESSAGE))
  puts "3) Message Sent"
  puts "message id: " + message_id

  # Get approximate message count in the queue...
  # Because SQS is a distributed system, the count may not be accurate.
  attribute = queue.get_queue_attributes("ApproximateNumberOfMessages")
  puts "4) Approximate Number of Messages: " + attribute

=== Retrieving and Deleting a Message

Now that a message is in the queue, the application receives it and then
deletes it with a separate request. SQS doesn't automatically delete a message
after returning it to you, in case you don't actually receive the message (the
receiving component could fail or lose its connection). By sending a request to
delete the message, you acknowledge that you've successfully received and
processed the message.

When requesting to get a message from the queue, you can't specify which
message to get. You simply specify the maximum number of messages you want to
get (up to 10), and SQS returns up to that maximum number. Because SQS is a
distributed system and the particular queue the example application is working
with has very few messages in it, the response to the receive request might be
empty. Therefore, the application continues to poll until it gets the message.
Then it uses the receipt handle that was returned with the message to delete
the message from the queue.

The following code receives the message from your queue and then deletes the
message.

  # Receive a message
  # If SQS returns empty, the message is not available yet.  
  # We keep retrying until the message is delivered.
  try_again = true
      while try_again
          begin
          try_again = false
          messages = queue.receive_messages
          if messages.nil?
              try_again = true
  
          # Message received...
          else
              messages.each do |message|
                  puts "5) Message Received"
                  message_id = message["Message"][0]["MessageId"][0]
                  puts "message id: " + message_id
                  @receipt_handle = message["Message"][0]["ReceiptHandle"][0]
                  puts "receipt handle: " + @receipt_handle
                  body = message["Message"][0]["Body"][0]
                  puts "message: " + CGI.unescape(body)
              end
          end
      rescue => Exception
          puts 'Test message not available - keep polling...'
          try_again = true
          sleep(1)
      end
  end
  
  # Delete message...
  if queue.delete_message(@receipt_handle)
      puts "Message deleted"
  end

=== Handling Exceptions and 5xx Errors

You should design your system to retry any request that receives an HTTP 5xx
status code—indicating a server-side issue. The code snippets in this section
show how the example application handles the 5xx errors using an exponential
backoff algorithm. The sample code also shows any required, explicit exception
handling.

In the Ruby sample code, the application needs to handle the general exception
type, as shown in the following code snippet.

  # General exception - exit and report error...

  rescue => Exception
    puts "Exception occurred: " + Exception
  end

To handle the 5xx errors, the sample code includes the following code in the
<tt>lib/aws/sqs/client.rb</tt> file.

  while try_again do
    # Send Amazon SQS query to endpoint
    response = http.start { |http|
      http.request(request)
    }
    # Check if we should retry this request
    if response == Net::HTTPServerError && retry_count <= 5
      retry_count ++
      sleep(retry_count / 4 * retry_count)
    else
      try_again = false
      xml = response.body.to_s
      return XmlSimple.xml_in(xml)
    end
  end
